8.17.3 release notes (#6550)
elastic/security-docs: docs/release-notes/8.17.asciidoc

== 8.17

[discrete]
[[release-notes-8.17.3]]

> === 8.17.3

Reviewer: Should we add a "Known issues" header under this version?

Author: Same comment as above.

// tag::known-issue[]
[discrete]
.Duplicate alerts can be produced from manually running threshold rules 
[%collapsible]
====
*Details* +
On November 12, 2024, it was discovered that manually running threshold rules could produce duplicate alerts if the date range was already covered by a scheduled rule execution.
====
// end::known-issue[]

// tag::known-issue[]
[discrete]
.Manually running custom query rules with suppression could suppress more alerts than expected
[%collapsible]
====
*Details* +
On November 12, 2024, it was discovered that manually running a custom query rule with suppression could incorrectly inflate the number of suppressed alerts. 
====
// end::known-issue[]

[discrete]
[[bug-fixes-8.17.3]]
==== Bug fixes
* Removes the option to sort IP ranges in the value list modal ({kibana-pull}210922[#210922]).
* Fixes package name validation on the Automatic Import data stream page ({kibana-pull}210916[#210916], {kibana-pull}210770[#210770]).
* Improves the way Automatic Import handles empty categorization results from LLMs ({kibana-pull}210420[#210420]).
* Adds concurrency limits and request throttling to prebuilt rule routes ({kibana-pull}209551[#209551]).

> * Fixes a Linux endpoint bug where tty capture limit defaults were ignored.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
* Fixes a bug in {elastic-defend} for Linux where tty capture limit defaults were ignored.
```

* Fixes a potential {elastic-defend} crash when generating multiple ransomware alerts on Windows. This issue was simultaneously mitigated by a cloud artifact update (manifest version 1.0.1381) on February 24, 2025. Internet-connected instances of {elastic-defend} will automatically receive this update -- no user intervention required. Air-gapped customers hosting their own artifacts should follow [these instructions](offline-endpoint). We would like to acknowledge [Todyl](https://www.todyl.com) for their assistance with this issue.

> * The `allocate_shellcode` API behavior was updated to explicitly only apply to unbacked memory.

Reviewer 2: * The `allocate_shellcode` {elastic-defend} API event behavior was updated to explicitly only apply to unbacked memory.

> * The `allocate_shellcode` API behavior was updated to explicitly only apply to unbacked memory.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
* The `allocate_shellcode` {elastic-defend} API event behavior was updated to explicitly only apply to unbacked memory.
* Fix a bug in {elastic-defend} where environment variables were not collected on macOS according to the `advanced.capture_env_vars` field
```

[discrete]
[[release-notes-8.17.2]]

> === 8.17.2

Reviewer: Should we add a "Known issues" header under this version?

Author: Ooops yeah, I accidentally deleted the header. I'll add it back in.

[%collapsible]
====
*Details* +
On November 12, 2024, it was discovered that manually running threshold rules could produce duplicate alerts if the date range was already covered by a scheduled rule execution.
====
// end::known-issue[]

// tag::known-issue[]
[discrete]
.Manually running custom query rules with suppression could suppress more alerts than expected
[%collapsible]
====
*Details* +
On November 12, 2024, it was discovered that manually running a custom query rule with suppression could incorrectly inflate the number of suppressed alerts. 
====
// end::known-issue[]

[discrete]
[[bug-fixes-8.17.3]]
==== Bug fixes
* Removes the option to sort IP ranges in the value list modal ({kibana-pull}210922[#210922]).
* Fixes package name validation on the Automatic Import data stream page ({kibana-pull}210916[#210916], {kibana-pull}210770[#210770]).
* Improves the way Automatic Import handles empty categorization results from LLMs ({kibana-pull}210420[#210420]).
* Adds concurrency limits and request throttling to prebuilt rule routes ({kibana-pull}209551[#209551]).
* Fixes a bug in {elastic-defend} for Linux where tty capture limit defaults were ignored.

> * Fixes a potential {elastic-defend} crash when generating multiple ransomware alerts on Windows. This issue was simultaneously mitigated by a cloud artifact update (manifest version 1.0.1381) on February 24, 2025. Internet-connected instances of {elastic-defend} will automatically receive this update -- no user intervention required. Air-gapped customers hosting their own artifacts should follow [these instructions](offline-endpoint). We would like to acknowledge [Todyl](https://www.todyl.com) for their assistance with this issue.

Reviewer 3: The link on [these instructions] isn't working. The link on Todyl isn't either

Author: Fixed in [f6614ba](https://github.com/elastic/security-docs/pull/6550/commits/f6614bad97cf571d6680c477be4b6ab09b55d315)!

* The `allocate_shellcode` {elastic-defend} API event behavior was updated to explicitly only apply to unbacked memory.

> * Fix a bug in {elastic-defend} where environment variables were not collected on macOS according to the `advanced.capture_env_vars` field

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
* Fixes a bug in {elastic-defend} where environment variables were not collected on macOS according to the `advanced.capture_env_vars` field
```

> * Fix a bug where aarch64 {elastic-defend} won't gracefully detect being executed in emulation on amd64 hardware.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
* Fixes a bug where aarch64 {elastic-defend} wouldn't gracefully detect being executed in emulation on amd64 hardware.
```
